CLICK FAQ
=========

SECTION 1: GENERAL QUESTIONS
----------------------------

Q. Is Click experimental software?

A. Yes.


Q. The Click Linux patch does not apply cleanly.

A. You need a specific version of Linux. The patch we are distributing (as
   of version 1.0) is for Linux 2.2.14. Most of the patch will apply no
   matter what version of Linux 2.2 you use. The problem is the Tulip
   device driver, which seems to be changing a lot between versions.


Q. How fast can Click route packets?

A. On a 700 MHz Pentium III, we could get 456,000 64-byte packets a second
   through a Click router with eight active DEC Tulip fast Ethernet cards.


Q. How do you do that?

A. Device driver improvements, including polling, and language-level
   optimizations.


Q. Can I get that many packets through a Click router?

A. You should be able to do that right now if you use DEC Tulip fast
   Ethernet cards. This is currently the only device driver that we have
   changed to use our polling extensions to Linux.


Q. How does Click run inside a Linux kernel?

A. As a kernel thread. It continually loops over a list of things to do,
   and does them---basically busy waiting. Other processes on the machine
   will get run, but not as often as on a machine without Click.


SECTION 2: QUESTIONS ABOUT POLLING
----------------------------------

Q. How can I change a device driver to use the Click polling extensions?

A. Benjie Chen, who designed the extensions, will be writing a document
   soon that describes how to do this. For now, though, you'll have to look
   at our additions to Linux's `struct device', and the way they are used
   by our Tulip driver. You can always write us and ask for help:
   <click@pdos.lcs.mit.edu>.


Q. Can I use Click without updating device drivers (that is, without
   polling)?

A. Sure you can. Just use FromDevice elements instead of PollDevice
   elements. Your performance will suck. In fact, it may suck even more
   than it used to. Earlier versions of Click had a couple hacks that made
   performance a bit better on a non-polling system. We removed those hacks
   for Click 1.0, now that we know how to make a high-performance system:
   use polling.


SECTION 3: QUESTIONS ABOUT BPF
------------------------------

Q. ToBPF doesn't seem to work. Why?

A. If you have a Linux 2.2 machine, make sure that you are using a recent
   version of libpcap. We recommend using an RPM, as the source code from
   Lawrence Berkeley Labs does not include some patches that Click depends
   upon (the Alexey Kuznetsov patches, archived at
   ftp://ftp.inr.ac.ru/ip-routing/lbl-tools/ as of July 2000). We welcome
   patches to ToBPF that would let it work with an unmodified libpcap.
